# Modelling-Network-Effects-of-Biological-Control
Biological control provides a sustainable alternative to chemical pesticides for controlling pests in agriculture. Chemical pesticides may lack the specificity to limit their adverse effects just on target species. However, the use of a biological control agent may cause ripple effects on ecological communities that exist within a farm or plantation. Ecological network analysis models can be used to anticipate such indirect impacts. In this work, we develop a graph theoretic model to gauge the effects of using a biological control agent to suppress the infestation of coconut plantations by scale insects. The model is based on the process graph technique described in our previous work. We retrospectively analyze the case of massive scale insect infestation of coconut plantations that occurred in the Philippines in the previous decade. Simulations with the model indicate the efficacy of biological control to suppress the infestation, particularly for serious outbreaks. On the other hand, use of a neonicotinoid poses undue collateral risks to the system because of its lethal effect on pollinators. Both of these results are corroborated by actual field experience.


Different software implementations of the P-graph framework are available (Friedler et al., 2022), but the P-graph Studio (2022) platform is by far the most well-developed. It is freely available at http://p-graph.org/pgraphstudio/.  The P-graph Studio is hosted and supported by the Department of Computer Science and Systems Technology at the University of Pannonia. P-graph Studio can be accessed and used free of charge for research purposes via www.p-graph.org. It is currently on version 5.2.2.2 and can only run under Microsoft Windows. The following specifications are required: Microsoft .NET Framework 4.5.1 (x86 and x64) and Windows Installer 4.5. The website also contains a brief tutorial on P-graph fundamentals.
